>> Kyle Simpson: We talked a bit earlier
in the course about this idea of function
specialization, we briefly glimpsed it.
And I mentioned things like
partial application and currying.
We're gonna come back and
dig into that fully.
So that's what we're gonna talk about,
the idea of going from more generalized
functions to more specialized functions.
This is a key concept in
functional programming.
All right, so let's imagine I
have a function called Ajax.
It takes three inputs, a URL, some sort
of data parameter, and then a callback.
And I might call it like you see on
line three, which is I call it with some
variable called CUSTOMER_API,
pass it a data object with id 42.
And then I pass it a callback that's
gonna render that customer to the screen,
for example.
Now, there's nothing wrong with line
three, it does get the job done.
And you've probably written code like that
on many occasions in your applications.
But what I want to point out is that,
that line has a lot of detail
in it that may not be necessary, for
the reader to see at that exact moment.
And that's really, it's not just that
we want to make the line shorter or
make it longer or something.
But we really want every line of code
to have only the amount of information,
no more, no less, that the reader
needs to see at that point.
So let's consider some intermediary
steps which might allow the reader
to understand things a little bit
more clearly without having to
read through a long line of
a bunch of different data.
So one thing that I could do is I could
make an intermediary function called
getCustomer.
Now, getCustomer already knows that
it's gonna make all of its ajax calls
against CUSTOMER_API.
And it only needs to receive data and
callbacks, but
it doesn't need to receive a URL,
because that's sort of hard coded, okay?
Now, on line 9, I'm calling getCustomer.
And I'm providing that same object with
the id:42, and that same renderCustomer.
So, compare line 3 and
line 9 in your mind.
Which one of those two lines is more
clearly describing to the reader
of the code what the purpose and
intent of that line of code is?
And I think most of you would say line 9.
It has a semantic function name there,
which is better than this general
function name ajax with a CUSTOMER_API.
It describes something more clearly.
So making that function may not
ever be called more than once.
And you're used to, we talked about this
DRY thing, you're used to thinking about,
well, I only make something into a
function if I'm going to call it three, or
five, or ten times.
I think Uncle Bob said,
only make it into a function when you've
copied it the third time, or whatever.
But I'm here to tell you that one of
the reasons why you make something into
a function is so
that the code is more semantic.
The name of a function call
describes its purpose.
And purpose is the key thing that we
want to communicate to our readers.
So even if I never was going
to call it ever again,
there still might be benefit
to defining getCustomer so
that I have a more clear name for
what's happening on line 9.
And if that's true,
then we can extend that even further.
Because there might be places in our
code where we need to get customers.
But there might be other
places in the code where
we need to get a very specific customer.
Like for example,
the currently logged in customer.
>> Kyle Simpson: So we might define
a further specialization function called
getCurrentUser.
And getCurrentUser is hard coded to the ID
of the currently logged in session,
or whatever, and
all it needs is a callback.
>> Kyle Simpson: So
line 16 compared to line 9.
And, therefore, compared also to line 3.
Comparing those three lines of code,
can we see that line 16, for
the places where that would be what we
wanted, line 16 is even more semantically
self-descriptive than is line 9, which
itself was more descriptive than line 3.
>> Kyle Simpson: We haven't changed
any of the functionality here.
That's a key component to understand.
We have not changed the functionality,
we have simply changed the stylization
of this code to be more semantic.
>> Kyle Simpson: Now, defining getCustomer
manually the way I did, and then defining
getCurrentUser manually the way that I
did, that's a bit of extra overhead work.
And you might say, it's unfortunate that I
have to do that definition of a function
just so that I can get a nice clean
function call on the call signature.
By the way, line 12,
I've commented that line out.
Because line 13 defines getCurrentUser
in terms of getCustomer.
But I could have defined getCurrentUser
in terms of just the ajax call,
would have had the exact same outcome.
Can anybody tell me why we might
choose line 13 over line 12?
>> Speaker 2: It's more declarative.
>> Kyle Simpson: It is more declarative.
But more specifically than that?
>> Kyle Simpson: It creates
a clearer relationship.
It says getCurrentUser is
the specialization of getCustomer,
as opposed to saying it is
the specialization of ajax.
Saying it's the specialization
of ajax is a weaker statement
relationally than saying it is
the specialization of getCustomer.
So even though both might have the same
outcome, the choice of line 13 makes
a clearer, more obvious signal about
the relationships between these entities.
Yes?
>> Speaker 3: It just seems
that currentUser also kind of implies
that it is a customer, because of-
>> Kyle Simpson: Yes, basically.
I could have called it getCurrentCustomer
or whatever, but yes, basically, right?
So in our domain model that would
be obvious to the reader, right?
But defining these functions manually
certainly has the downside which is that
we're cluttering up this code.
You might have to take those and
put them somewhere else or whatever.
So is there some way that we could define
these more specialized versions of
functions, but without having to define
manually pointed functions like this.
These are pointed definitions
rather than pointfree.
How could we define them more clearly?
>> Kyle Simpson: First thing you need
to understand before we move into that
solution is, as I said earlier,
the parameter order matters greatly.
When you're going to specialize a
function, that is, an n-ary function that
takes 3, 4, 5, 10, 20, whatever, inputs,
the order of those inputs matters.
And basically, the order should
always be from the most general of
the parameter on the left to the most
specific of parameters on the right.
Because we're going to provide
those inputs one at a time,
the way we were doing manually, and
you want to unfold them in that order.
If you had the most specific one on the
left, well, now it's gonna be harder to
provide that input, because you're trying
to provide a more general input first.
And you're having to skip
over a more specific input.
So it's important when we design
our functions to design them so
that their parameter orders
are going from general to specific.
By the way, you will encounter
this in your functional libraries.
When you're exploring something
like Ramda or whatever.
For example, the map function.
Most of us, I think,
are used to thinking in terms of
a utility like map,
which takes two inputs.
We're used to thinking, okay I'll
pass the array as the first input.
And I'll pass the function
as the second input.
But you'll notice that every
functional library in existence
will do that reversed.
It will pass the function first and
then it will pass the array.
You may never have stopped to wonder,
why is it that they do that?
They do that very specifically
because [LAUGH] the array values,
the data, is the most specific of all of
the inputs that could possibly go in.
And then the callback is
more general of an input.
So we want, if we're gonna specialize
a map call, we're almost always gonna
provide a mapper function and
then provide new pieces of data,
rather than provide a single array and
provide different mapper functions.
Are you with me?
So parameter order does matter
when we shape these things.
And sometimes the parameters are correct,
in the right order.
Sometimes we have to juggle them with
those utilities like flip and stuff.